---
title: NVM stuff
layout: post
---
#Installation of Node.js and npm via NVM:

This is a tutorial on how to install Node.js and
npm using Node Version Manager(NVM). This method will avoid EACCES
errors when trying to install npm or npm packages.

##What is Node.js?

Node.js is an event-driven, server-side JavaScript environment.
Node runs JavaScript using the V8 engine developed by Google for
use in their Chrome web browser. Leveraging V8 allows Node to provide
a server-side runtime environment that compiles and executes
JavaScript.Node is open source and cross-platform, running on Mac OSX,
Windows, and Linux.

##What is npm?

npm, short for Node Package Manager, is two things: firstly,
it is an online repository for the publishing of open-source Node.js
projects; secondly, it is a command-line utility for interacting with
this repository that aids in package installation, version management,
and dependency management. Packages can be installed from the repository
using a single line of command. eg.

```npm install async```

Another use for npm is its dependency management. When you have a
node project with a package.json file, you can run npm install from the
project root and npm will install all the dependencies listed in the
package.json.

##Installing NVM:

Before following the steps below to install node/npm,
you should first make sure that there are no versions of node/npm
already installed on your system. This can be done with
the following lines of code:

---
which node
which npm
---

If there is no output after either of the above, then that
respective package is not present on your system.

Once this is complete, type the following lines:

---
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev
---

Once these prerequisite packages are installed you can install NVM with
with the command:

```curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.16.1/install.sh | sh```

You may now have to restart your terminal. Once you've done this,
run the following command:

```source ~/.profile```

##Installing Node:

You can then view which versions of Node.js are available for
installation with the command:

```nvm ls-remote```

You can install it by typing:

```nvm install "version number"```

npm should be installed by default along with Node.js. You should now
be able to install packages without being forced to use the sudo command.
You can set a default version of Node to be used by the setting the alias
"default". eg.

```nvm alias default 0.8.22```

This allows you to revert to a different version of Node if the current
version is incompatible with an particular application. Each version of
Node will keep track of its own packages. You can also install a package
globally, which will make it available to all projects using the same
version of Node, by adding the -g tag. eg.

```npm install -g express```

Installing globally will let you run the commands from the command line,
but you'll have to link the package into your local sphere to require
it from within a program. eg.

```npm link express```
